# Proposal: Lightning Pay

## Product

### Problem

1. Billions(?) of BTC is locked up from being used for commerce due to high transaction fees. This means a new customer base for merchants.
2. Micropayments serve a largely untapped market as selling products/services at < $2 ($5?) is not feasible with today's technology (see e.g. [paying for content](http://transcopyright.org/hcoinRemarks-D28.html))
3. Crypto (payment) solutions provide [terrible user experiences](https://twitter.com/awilkinson/status/1379079069728350209?s=20)

### Solution

_A buyer-focused payment gateway that offers instant transacting and negligable fees on behalf of the merchant._

* Payments can be done through BTC, stablecoin, or fiat [^1]
* The lightning network provides a good technology standard to build on top of

Buyers fund a Lightning Pay mobile wallet with a small working amount (e.g. $100) as their hot wallet "checking account". [^2]

~~Integration with the lightning network is an implementation detail and is opaque to the users. All they experience are low transaction fees.~~

Merchants will use the same payments app to recieve funds on day 1, but eventually will be transitioned to a Stripe-like payment portal.

**Integrations**

Depending on the customer segment (e.g. merchants on ecommerce sites; creators vs tipping, etc. may be required for more seamless payments.

## Distribution

_The table below lists use cases and customer segments we could apply this payment processing system to._

Use Case | Segment | Distribution Channel | Incentivize Usage
---|---|---|---
Any eCommerce | Any Shopify/Wix/etc. Merchant | eCommerce Platform Apps | 1. Share cost savings with customers<br>2. Exclusive deals/promos with users (marketing/communication channel a la Shop App)
Gateway infront of "Micro" Digital Content | 1. Creators creating "micro" content (e.g.) single digital image, song, etc.<br>2. Stock / royalty-free content (B2B that forces customers to buy credits or is bundling content; lower barrier to entry) | B2B relationships/outreach (Any Gum Road techniques?) | More sales for merchants, lower barrier to entry for buyers
Tipping | Social Network Users | Social Networks (Twitter, Telegram, Slack [Remote Team Apps], Reddit, etc.) | Virtue Signalling[^6]
Tipping Streamers | Twitch/YouTube Streamers | Streaming Platform Apps; Have creators promote so they can make more $$$ | Lower Fees, Smaller Payments
PPV to replace Ads | Journalism, Bloggers | B2B to Websites using Ad-blocker tools (like [Admiral](https://www.getadmiral.com/)) | An ethical way to support journalism
Send Money to Friends/Family | ... | ... | ...
Sending Money Overseas to Family | ... | ... | ...
Low-Price Offline Payments to replace Cash-Only | ... | ... | ...
Pay Temp-Workers To Get Hourly Payouts | ... | ... | ...
Paid Email | ... | ... | ...
... | ... | ... | ...

[^1]: Fiat will likely be routed through local exchanges and will incur fees until we can do this ourselves. Even today, the fees would only would be around half of a payment gateway like PayPal/Stripe. This fiat off-ramp however will almost certainly require KYC.

[^2]: In the future we can implement decentralized custodial services like [Casa](https://keys.casa/) or [[../social-recovery-wallets]] to support "vaults" for larger amounts on the wallet.

[^3]: Among other technologies Multi-Path Payments (MPPs) will likely be at the core of this (see [[../lightning-network-liquidity]] for more info)

[^4]: Top-up can be implemented via "Splicing" (see [[../lightning-network-liquidity]])

[^5]: A liquidity "marketplace" a la [Lightning Labs Pool](https://lightning.engineering/pool/) ([CoinDesk Article](https://www.coindesk.com/lightning-network-liquidity-pool-surprising-mix)) is perhaps a more scalable approach to implement liquidity and in-line with the ethos of the Bitcoin.

[^6]: May be a good parntership oppourtunity with [Give](https://withgive.com)

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[../social-recovery-wallets]: ../social-recovery-wallets "Social Recovery Wallets"
[../lightning-network-liquidity]: ../lightning-network-liquidity "Lightning Network Liquidity"
[../lightning-network-liquidity]: ../lightning-network-liquidity "Lightning Network Liquidity"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
