---
---

## Relevant Papers

- [A Survey on Blockchain Interoperability: Past, Present, and Future Trends](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2005.14282.pdf)

## Categories

### Public Connectors

> Includes [[sidechain]] approaches, notary schemes, hash time hash-locks. E.g. state channels are off-chain side channels used to implement payment channels by offloading transactions. In a payment channel, participants interact, collect cryptographically signed messages to update the current state w/o publishing to main chain. Good for when multiple transactions are to be summed up into a single one.

### Blockchain of Blockchains

Cosmos, Polkadot - Relay Chains

### Hybrid Connectors

**Trusted Relays**

E.g. [Hyperledger Cactus](https://www.hyperledger.org/use/cactus)

> Cactus allows a party or a set of parties to issue transactions against several ledgers, similarly to some notary scheme solutions. The interoperability is enabled through a set of interoperability validators, which are participants from the source and target blockchains. Such validators collect cross-chain transaction requests, sign and deliver them.

**Blockchain Agnostic Protocols (including Blockchain of Blockchains)**

**Blockchain Migrators**

## On Validators

> Zamyatin et al. prove that “there exists no asynchronous CCC [cross-chain communication] protocol tolerant against misbehaving nodes”. The authors use a reduction to the fair exchange problem to prove that correct crosschain communication is as hard as the fair exchange problem. As a consequence of the presented theorem, the authors state that “there exists no CCC protocol tolerant against misbehaving nodes without a trusted third party”. A trusted third party can be centralized or decentralized
>
> Centralized trusted parties are, for example, trusted validators. A
> decentralized trusted party can be another blockchain, in which their participants agree on the global ledger state via a consensus algorithm. However, the trusted party has to ensure that most participants are honest, guaranteeing the correctness of the process is guaranteed. Cross-chain protocols, therefore “use the consensus of the distributed ledgers as an abstraction for a trusted third party.” ~[A Survey on Blockchain Interoperability: Past, Present, and Future Trends](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2005.14282.pdf)

See [SoK: Communication Across Distributed Ledgers](https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/1128.pdf)

Validators, aka relayers?

## Misc Notes

- Growing research trend and interest

> Until recently, blockchains did not consider the need for interoperability, as each one focused on resolving specific challenges, leading to data and value silos

> ...a user should be able to transfer their assets from a blockchain to another or build cross-blockchain decentralized applications.

> ...has the potential to solve some of the biggest blockchain research challenges. In particular interoperability promotes blockchain scalability, as it provides a way to offload transactions to other blockchains, e.g., via sharding it can promote privacy (by allowing the end-user to use different blockchain for data objects with different privacy requirements), and creates new business opportunities.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[sidechain]: sidechain "Sidechains"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
